# IOT-based-smart-farming
The system proposed in this work uses an Node MCU 32 microcontroller and a collection of sensors of Ph, temperature, humidity, soil moisture and water level. 
The microcontroller periodically collects data from the sensors and sends it to the web server, and then updates the farmers website . 
The web server receives data from different devices and provides a web interface to the farmer as well as any expert. 
Whenever the sensor values drop below the threshold levels, the system automatically  corrects them. 
For a given crop, the threshold levels of all environmental factors are decided. The system continuously monitors the field and whenever the water levels fall under the threshold level, it will switch ON the water supply and switches OFF when the water reaches a safe level. 
I  have developed an IoT based automated smart farming system where the temperature and moisture sensors deployed in field communicate to Node MCU 32 microcontroller. 
The sensed moisture, ph, humidity, water level and temperature values are then transmitted. 
The system here consists of three components. First component is the Node MCU 32 Microcontroller part where Soil Moisture, ph, water level, humidity and Temperature Sensor deployed in soil are connected to the Microcontroller which gives the moisture, ph, water level, humidity and temperature output based on soil condition, ph, water level, humidity and Temperature. The data received by Node MCU 32 are then sent to the web server.  The predicted output is then used for sending the control signal via the serial communication to Node MCU for controlling water pump for watering the field accordingly the humidifer for cooling the room and the alarm to alert the farmer that the water level is low.. The last and final component is recording the soil moisture, ph, water level, humidity and Temperature level and prediction with date and time in the cloud server for farmer’s to access from their mobile or computer to have good knowledge and understanding on what’s happening in the field. 

